Welcome back it's time for us to actually start implementing sessions because we now have a profile
to work with and remember our goal here is to try and do this.
We're going to sign in to our app.
The user is going to send username and password.
The server is then going to generate a JWT token and we're going to send that to the user so that next
time they access any of their routes that are protected or require authentication like profile 23 they'll
have to send this JWT token with them so that when a user gets a profile or updates a profile by doing
a POST request.
Well they have to send the JWT token to the server.
The server then can verify the token using the DOD verify method or in our case it can actually have
the token stored in a read us database checking to make sure that it's a valid one.
And then if everything checks out all right you can have your profile or you can update your profile.
And in this video we're going to work on this part.
We're going to generate the JWT token after the user signs and let's get started.
Now if we go back to our server Yes we have our docker compose running in the background here everything
checks out the end point that we want to work with is the sign in endpoint.
So when we sign in we're calling this function handle seinen and you see here that it's a little bit
different than the other ones.
You see that all the other endpoints receive a request response and then they have a function that receives
the rest requests response.
And we also pass in the database and the script that is the hashing library.
Now this is a little bit different because I want to show different ways of doing it.
In this case whenever a signing is called well the handle sign will be called with the database and
be gripped using dependency injection.
That is we give the dependency of database and be corrupt to handle seinen so that when handle signing
is called here and sign in.
Yes it is called with the DB script.
And then whenever there's a post request the function gets run again.
So once again this is a high order function.
A function that returns a function and it receives the request response.
And it works both ways.
You can do it this way or we can do it this way and this is just cleaner because while we run this function
and then whenever post gets hit whenever a user shines in we're going to add the request response automatically
to this handler.
Now here's the thing right now.
Handle sign in.
We want to make it better.
We don't want to just say use the sign and methods that we have before we need to now generate a token.
So let's change this to something else.
Let's change it to let's say sign an authentication.
Sounds a little bit more official.
OK.
And there's sign in authentication.
We're going to have to create.
So let's go to seinen dodgy Yes and and sign in.
Yes let's change now the or let's add the konked sign in authentication
and this sign in authentication is going to do what handle seinen used to do.
It's going to receive a database and a brick B script through dependency injection.
It's going to then receive the request response
and then it's going to do a little bit of things here.
For now though let's make sure that we're exporting this new function instead of the handle sign in.
And let's talk about what we're going to do inside of you if we remember our diagram Well we want to
obviously check the passwords and everything check the database do what handle seinen is doing.
But we also want to generate a JWT token if everything checks out and the way I like to write things
is to think about what the function does.
Write things out with functions that don't exist yet.
So we can just slowly build that up.
Let's give it a go here.
What we want to check first in this case is we want to make sure that well first of all we're going
to receive request response from the requests from the client.
So let's check if the authorization pächter is set by the client because remember they can send JWT
tokens in the authorization header.
And don't worry we're going to see how that's done on the client side.
But we want to check because if they already have this authorization token they shouldn't be able to
sign in again they can just go ahead and just get into the website grab their profile.
I mean that's one of the main reasons we're doing this is we don't want the user to constantly have
to sign it.
And in here let's just return to thinks or have two options.
One is do we have the authorization in the headers and the signing.
If that's the case well then we can say something like grab the user profile for now let's just name
it.
Get off token ID and this is a function that doesn't exist.
So I'm just going to leave it the way it is and appear just call a concert get off token ID and this
function is going to be a silly function that does absolutely nothing other than console log off.
OK
let's say that.
Now we're saying here we have the second option the second option is if they don't have the authorization.
Well we want to handle the signing.
So once again we're going to say handle seinen and remember that handle seinen needs the database be
crypt request and response objects.
So I'm going to give that request or let's start off with the B B script request and response objects.
And because this is no longer a higher order function we're just calling it once.
Let's just change this from a function that returns a function to just simply a good all regular function
just like that.
Let's add this on your line actually just so we can see a better
that's better.
So we have to we have authorization in that case grab the auto can ID and hopefully grab the user profile.
Otherwise we want to handle seinen which is what we have by default already.
Now in here with handle seinen I want to go over an important concept and that is we've just changed
the handle seinen from being the default handler of this endpoint to now having the sign and authentication.
And when we do that mentally just to simplify things and to avoid any future errors I want to say that.
OK.
Because this is the handler of the end point.
This should be the thing that returns a response a status 200 a Jaison response.
We don't want the handle sign end to be returning the response dot Jaison or error response status 400
because well this is just a helper function now that we use inside of the main handler.
If for some reason a new developer comes along and sees this and says oh I'll just return a response
in here.
Well it's going to error out because we can send multiple responses.
So I like keeping things clean and whatever handles the actual end point should be the one that actually
returns a response.
Now there's a nice way that we can clean things up.
Let's go back to the handle sign and function here and change all our responses to just return a promise
because at the end of the day handle signing is sort of handling promises.
It's doing the database select checking the database which returns a promise and whenever we have a
function we want to make sure that we stay consistent that function should always return an expected
output.
And that's something that we've learned before in this course that is we don't want to send a promise
or a stream.
We want to stick to something predictable so that if another function like sign and authentication is
using it well we make sure that the sign in authentication whoever's writing this doesn't have to worry
about the handle sign and function we can trust that it's working and it's only returning a promise.
All right let's change this so that now we have a response that comes from seinen authentication and
changing handle seinen to make sure it doesn't do any responses and just returns promises.
Now the first thing I'm going to do is the handle seinen we need to return something to the client to
the front end.
So many some sort of response that we send back.
So let's say within here I'm going to add a dot then for handle seinen and maybe I'll keep this on one
line so it's easier to see.
So the handle sign it is going to have a dot then it's going to receive the user as you can see here.
We're going to be returning the user from here and this user or let's just leave it a data for now.
This data is going to have for now let's just do a response Daut Jaison and just returned the data.
That is the user that we're interested in and for some reason if that doesn't work out well then we
can just do a dumb catch and their stock cash will receive the air response status.
400 and for now we can just return the actual air.
All right.
Now if I go back here now we need to make sure that the handle sign in return is a promise because while
we're doing 8.10 catch going back here we look at the handle sign and function.
And the first thing that I notice is the fact that if no e-mail and password is given well we're going
to return a status for Hodgin which we don't want to do.
Perhaps instead what we want to do is reject a promise so that it catches in the handle sign here.
So I'm going to change this to instead of response status to a promise dot reject which automatically
rejects and returns a promise.
Nice and simple.
If we keep going down here the next step we see that.
All right we're doing this database look up but we're actually not returning anything here.
I don't see a return keyword.
We're returning inside of it but not here.
And this is a common mistake with promises.
We always want to make sure that your returning promises.
So in our case let's just add a return keyword in here.
Now we're returning this promise.
And as we go inside of it we see that.
OK.
Well we don't want to have a response.
We just want to return the user and perhaps we might want to even change the name to handle sign and
to perhaps check username password or something along those lines.
For now though let's change this to a nice little one liner or let's grab it like this and return the
user.
Now remember returns an array of the user in our case the one user that returns from checking the password
and email that looks a little bit cleaner.
And then for the DOT catch here we want to make sure that instead of the status again we can just say
a promise.
Reject.
And once again here for any errors we'll just do promise not reject.
All right.
So no matter what this function should be returning a promise now so that with handle sign and we can
just handle it like this then send us the data that is the user.
Otherwise we'll catch any errors that we've received.
In our case on able to get user Ron credentials and just returned that Jaison response.
Now let's safe here and test out our code.
We've written a bit of code without actually testing it.
So let's just go back here and sign out and test with our good old friend a dot.com or an eight hour
day and open up the console make sure there's no errors here.
As I clicked sign in.
All right look at that Nowhere's.
And we're still able to sign in.
We've accomplished absolutely nothing in terms of functionality on the front end.
But we now have more flexibility.
We're still returning the user as they sign in the user from the database.
But we've also extended So now that we check for authorization headers and if that exists we can just
grab the auth token Heidi.
Now that we have that set up in the next video I want to actually generate a JWT token for this user.
If it's their first time loggy again they don't have an authorization token.
Well I want to handle seinen by grabbing the user but also when I return the user data I also want to
return a JWT token so that in future visits they don't have to go through this step again.
I'll see on that one.